
# Learn How to use Git
Git in simple terms, is a piece of software that helps you keep track of your source code, files, and the changes that are made in those files over time. 
## Getting Started
The following instruction will help you set up the project as a developer.

### Prerequisites
Before you clone this project you need to:


```
Install Python 3.7 
```

```
Create a virtual environment
```


```
Make sure your virtualenvironment is activated everytime you work on this project
```

### Managing Dependencies
After cloning the project, on your terminal navigate to project base folder (where requirements.txt is)
To install dependencies run the following command:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

In case you add dependencies to the project, make sure you update requirements.txt by 
running the following command.

```
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

Make sure you use git flow, the latest code will be on develop branch.

### Configuration File
Django uses settings.py files for configuration. Do not edit this file, instead create 
a file named local_settings.py in the folder where settings.py is located and copy 
everything that is located inside settings.py apart from the last lines which start
with try. 

Every time you want to change configuration use local_settings.py


### Version Control
Since we are using git - make sure you setup git flow on your local machine. We will be 
using feature development structure. 


### Development
After developing a specific feature - merge your code to your local develop and push to online develop.


### Running Migrations
Before you can run the project in development environment, you need to set up the 
migration. To create initial migration run the following command:
```
python manage.py makemigrations qed
```

To sync you migration with the database use the following command:
```
python manage.py migrate
```

### Built With
* [Python 3.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370/) - Programming Language
* [Django Web Framework](https://www.djangoproject.com/) - The web framework used
* [Git Flow Cheatsheet](https://danielkummer.github.io/git-flow-cheatsheet/) - Version Control


### Removing All Migrations Files
Sometimes in the course of development you find yourself at point where you need to clear
migrations. You can use the following commands:

```
find . -path "*/migrations/*.py" -not -name "__init__.py" -delete
```

```
find . -path "*/migrations/*.pyc"  -delete
```

### Authors
* **Henry Mbugua**


## Company
* [Hlab](http://blog.hlab.tech)

